Codebook
========

This is a codebook with the data to indicate all the variables and summaries calculated, along with units, and any other relevant information.

Variables created in TidyData.txt
---------------------------------

TidyData.txt is generated by the run_analysis.R file. It is a set of 88 variables with the mean and standard deviation of the sensor features for each activity and each subject/volunteer.

More information can be found in README.md

Description of variables in TidyData.txt
----------------------------------------

The sensor features come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ (prefix 't' to denote time domain). The acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ). 

The body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:

* tBodyAcc-XYZ
* tGravityAcc-XYZ
* tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
* tBodyGyro-XYZ
* tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
* tBodyAccMag
* tGravityAccMag
* tBodyAccJerkMag
* tBodyGyroMag
* tBodyGyroJerkMag
* fBodyAcc-XYZ
* fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
* fBodyGyro-XYZ
* fBodyAccMag
* fBodyAccJerkMag
* fBodyGyroMag
* fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are (other variables from the UCI HAR Dataset where filtered out according to the project assignment): 

* mean(): Mean value
* std(): Standard deviation

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable:

* gravityMean
* tBodyAccMean
* tBodyAccJerkMean
* tBodyGyroMean
* tBodyGyroJerkMean

